# CollatzConjecture
C implementation of an exhaustive method of checking the Collatz Conjecture

This project is an exhaustive check of numbers against the Collatz Conjecture
(explained [here](https://youtu.be/5mFpVDpKX70)).

Although the usefulness of this project is very questionable, it's become a
great source of coding practice for myself.

### Requirements
* CMake
* Boost
* CUDA (only if building/running the CUDA executable)

### Building
This project uses CMake, so build using this format after cloning:
```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
```

By default, this will build the C and C++ versions of the code. To enable build
of the CUDA executable, turn on the Collatz_CUDA flag using either `ccmake .`
or `cmake .. -DCollatz_CUDA=ON`.

### Running
#### C++
To run the C++ version, run the built `CollatzConjectureCPP` executable. This
executable can take the following options:
```
  -h [ --help ]         Display this message
  -n [ --numproc ] arg  Number of cpu threads to use
  -s [ --server ] arg   Start a CollatzServer on this machine
  -c [ --client ] arg   Point this machine as a client to the given server
```

##### Server/Client Operation
To start an executable in the serving mode, run with the option `-s <port>`,
where `port` is the number of the port you want to serve from. To connect a
client to this server, run with the option `-c <ip:port>`, where `ip` is the
address of the machine running the server and `port` is the port number the
server was told to serve from.

#### C
The C executable is not built with client/server capabilities, even though it
claims it is. Run it with the option `--server <port>` to get it to run, but
it will not serve anything. This executable, being the original, is just
called `CollatzConjecture`.

#### CUDA
The CUDA version of the conjecture is also a standalone application, and acts
like it. Run it by executing the `CollatzConjectureCUDA` executable.

### Documentation
The C++ code has adopted a Doxygen-compatible documentation standard, so
documentation can be generated by just running Doxygen in the checkout
directory.
